README.md, before:

Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix
==========

An ugly temporary fix for [Arduino/#2986](https://github.com/arduino/Arduino/issues/2986). Some people are getting the error message: `avrdude: usbdev_open(): did not find any USB device "usb"` when trying to **Burn Bootloader** using the **AVRISP mkII** programmer under [Arduino](http://arduino.cc) IDE 1.6.x. The problem is that the two avrdude commands are sent without enough delay between them.

This fix adds an **AVRISP mkII Burn Bootloader** option to **Tools>Programmer**. This programmer option causes the **erase** and **bootloader** steps to be done in the first avrdude command so burning the bootloader is accomplished successfully even though the second avrdude command fails.

#### Comparison With Alternative Fix
Another fix has been presented in the Arduino Forum by dmjlambert: http://forum.arduino.cc/index.php?topic=345838 here is a comparison of Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix vs the dmjlambert fix:
##### Pros
- Doesn't require modification of any Arduino or other hardware core files
- Doesn't need to be redone anytime the Arduino IDE or any hardware core is updated
- Doesn't affect any programmer except for AVRISP mkII

##### Cons
- Burn Bootloader appears to fail even when successful
- You need to use the standard AVRISP mkII programmer option for Upload Using Programmer


#### Installation
There are two options for installing Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix:
##### Boards Manager
This installation method requires Arduino IDE version 1.6.4 or greater.
- Open the Arduino IDE.
- Open the **File > Preferences** menu item.
- Enter the following URL in **Additional Boards Manager URLs**: https://per1234.github.io/Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix/package_per1234_Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix_index.json
- Open the **Tools > Board > Boards Manager...** menu item.
- Wait for the platform indexes to finish downloading.
- Scroll down until you see the **Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix** entry and click on it.
- Click Install.
- After installation is complete close the Boards Manager window.

##### Manual Installation
- Download the Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix files here: https://github.com/per1234/Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix/archive/master.zip
- Extract the .zip file
- Copy the extracted folder inside your sketchbook/hardware folder.
- If the Arduino IDE is running then restart it.


#### Usage
##### Burn Bootloader
- Connect the AVRISP mkII to your Arduino
- Select **Tools>Programmer>AVRISP mkII Burn Bootloader**
- Select the correct board from **Tools>Board**
- Click **Tools>Burn Bootloader**
- The bootloader will be burned to your Arduino but then the avrdude output will fail with the error message `avrdude: usbdev_open(): did not find any USB device "usb"`. This is because the second avrdude command failed as it will do with **Tools>Programmer>AVRISP mkII**, however if you examine the avrdude output fully you will see that the first command was successful and the bootloader was burned in that command.

##### Upload Using Programmer
Use **Tools>Programmer>AVRISP mkII** for **Upload Using Programmer**. If you use **Tools>Programmer>AVRISP mkII Burn Bootloader** it will burn the bootloader as well as uploading your sketch which is not the expected action.

Commit message:

Upload Using Programmer fix
I started getting "Error while uploading: missing
'program.params.verbose' configuration parameter" when trying to Upload
Using Programmer although I have successfully done it before. The
solution was to add a platform.txt that specifies the parameter. This
platform.txt file is only used for Upload Using Programmer, the
platform.txt associated with the selected board(or the default one if
the selected board doesn't have an associated platform.txt) is used for
Burn Bootloader so I can't move the fix from programmers.txt  by
modifying the "erase" and "bootloader" avrdude platform.txt entries in
the included platform.txt unfortunately. By replacing the
{program.extra_params} with -Pusb in tools.avrdude.program.pattern I was
able to fix the issue of the Burn Bootloader workaround causing Upload
Using Programmer to upload the bootloader also.

README.md, after:

Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix
==========

A workaround for [Arduino/#2986](https://github.com/arduino/Arduino/issues/2986). Some people are getting the error message: `avrdude: usbdev_open(): did not find any USB device "usb"` when trying to **Burn Bootloader** using the **AVRISP mkII** programmer under [Arduino](http://arduino.cc) IDE 1.6.x. The problem is that the two avrdude commands are sent without enough delay between them.

This fix adds an **AVRISP mkII Burn Bootloader** option to **Tools>Programmer**. This programmer option causes the **erase** and **bootloader** steps to be done in the first avrdude command so burning the bootloader is accomplished successfully even though the second avrdude command fails.

#### Comparison With Alternative Fix
Another fix has been presented in the Arduino Forum by dmjlambert: http://forum.arduino.cc/index.php?topic=345838 here is a comparison of Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix vs the dmjlambert fix:
##### Pros
- Doesn't require modification of any Arduino or other hardware core files
- Doesn't need to be redone every time the Arduino IDE or any hardware core with a platform.txt is updated
- Doesn't affect any programmer except for AVRISP mkII

##### Cons
- Burn Bootloader appears to fail even when successful


#### Installation
There are two options for installing Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix:
##### Boards Manager
This installation method requires Arduino IDE version 1.6.4 or greater.
- Open the Arduino IDE.
- Open the **File > Preferences** menu item.
- Enter the following URL in **Additional Boards Manager URLs**: https://per1234.github.io/Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix/package_per1234_Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix_index.json
- Open the **Tools > Board > Boards Manager...** menu item.
- Wait for the platform indexes to finish downloading.
- Scroll down until you see the **Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix** entry and click on it.
- Click Install.
- After installation is complete close the Boards Manager window.

##### Manual Installation
- Download the Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix files here: https://github.com/per1234/Arduino-AVRISPmkII-fix/archive/master.zip
- Extract the .zip file
- Copy the extracted folder inside your sketchbook/hardware folder.
- If the Arduino IDE is running then restart it.


#### Usage
##### Burn Bootloader
- Connect the AVRISP mkII to your Arduino
- Select **Tools>Programmer>AVRISP mkII(fix)**
- Select the correct board from **Tools>Board**
- Click **Tools>Burn Bootloader**
- The bootloader will be burned to your Arduino but then the avrdude output will fail with the error message `avrdude: usbdev_open(): did not find any USB device "usb"`. This is because the second avrdude command failed as it will do with **Tools>Programmer>AVRISP mkII**, however if you examine the avrdude output fully you will see that the first command was successful and the bootloader was burned in that command.
